.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH TAPSET::SCHEDULER 3stap "March 2016" "SystemTap Tapset Reference"
.SH NAME
tapset::scheduler \- systemtap scheduler tapset
 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.TP
.P
.TP
.B scheduler.cpu_off 
Process is about to stop running on a cpu
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::scheduler.cpu_off (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B scheduler.cpu_on 
Process is beginning execution on a cpu
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::scheduler.cpu_on (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B scheduler.tick 
Schedulers internal tick, a processes timeslice accounting is updated
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::scheduler.tick (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B scheduler.balance 
A cpu attempting to find more work.
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::scheduler.balance (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B scheduler.ctxswitch 
A context switch is occuring.
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::scheduler.ctxswitch (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B scheduler.kthread_stop 
A thread created by kthread_create is being stopped
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::scheduler.kthread_stop (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B scheduler.kthread_stop.return 
A kthread is stopped and gets the return value
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::scheduler.kthread_stop.return (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B scheduler.wait_task 
Waiting on a task to unschedule (become inactive)
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::scheduler.wait_task (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B scheduler.wakeup 
Task is woken up 
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::scheduler.wakeup (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B scheduler.wakeup_new 
Newly created task is woken up for the first time
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::scheduler.wakeup_new (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B scheduler.migrate 
Task migrating across cpus
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::scheduler.migrate (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B scheduler.process_free 
Scheduler freeing a data structure for a process
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::scheduler.process_free (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B scheduler.process_exit 
Process exiting
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::scheduler.process_exit (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B scheduler.process_wait 
Scheduler starting to wait on a process
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::scheduler.process_wait (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B scheduler.process_fork 
Process forked
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::scheduler.process_fork (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B scheduler.signal_send 
Sending a signal
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::scheduler.signal_send (3stap)
 for details.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR
.IR \%probe::scheduler.cpu_off (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::scheduler.cpu_on (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::scheduler.tick (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::scheduler.balance (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::scheduler.ctxswitch (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::scheduler.kthread_stop (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::scheduler.kthread_stop.return (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::scheduler.wait_task (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::scheduler.wakeup (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::scheduler.wakeup_new (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::scheduler.migrate (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::scheduler.process_free (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::scheduler.process_exit (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::scheduler.process_wait (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::scheduler.process_fork (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::scheduler.signal_send (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%stap (1),
.IR \%stapprobes (3stap)
