.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH TAPSET::UCONTEXT-SYMBOLS 3stap "March 2016" "SystemTap Tapset Reference"
.SH NAME
tapset::ucontext-symbols \- systemtap ucontext-symbols tapset
 
.SH DESCRIPTION

 User context symbol functions provide additional information about
 addresses from an application. These functions can provide
 information about the user space map (library) that the event occurred or
 the function symbol of an address.

.TP
.P
.TP
.B ustack 
Return address at given depth of user stack backtrace
.IP
See 
.IR function::ustack (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B usymname 
Return the symbol of an address in the current task.
.IP
See 
.IR function::usymname (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B usymdata 
Return the symbol and module offset of an address.
.IP
See 
.IR function::usymdata (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B print_ustack 
Print out stack for the current task from string.
.IP
See 
.IR function::print_ustack (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B print_usyms 
Print out user stack from string
.IP
See 
.IR function::print_usyms (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B sprint_ustack 
Return stack for the current task from string.
.IP
See 
.IR function::sprint_ustack (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B sprint_usyms 
Return stack for user addresses from string
.IP
See 
.IR function::sprint_usyms (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B usymfileline 
Return the file name and line number of an address.
.IP
See 
.IR function::usymfileline (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B usymfile 
Return the file name of a given address.
.IP
See 
.IR function::usymfile (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B usymline 
Return the line number of an address.
.IP
See 
.IR function::usymline (3stap)
 for details.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR
.IR \%function::ustack (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%function::usymname (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%function::usymdata (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%function::print_ustack (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%function::print_usyms (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%function::sprint_ustack (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%function::sprint_usyms (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%function::usymfileline (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%function::usymfile (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%function::usymline (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%stap (1),
.IR \%stapprobes (3stap)
