.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH TAPSET::TTY 3stap "March 2016" "SystemTap Tapset Reference"
.SH NAME
tapset::tty \- systemtap tty tapset
 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.TP
.P
.TP
.B tty.open 
Called when a tty is opened
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::tty.open (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B tty.release 
Called when the tty is closed
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::tty.release (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B tty.resize 
Called when a terminal resize happens
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::tty.resize (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B tty.ioctl 
called when a ioctl is request to the tty
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::tty.ioctl (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B tty.init 
Called when a tty is being initalized
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::tty.init (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B tty.register 
Called when a tty device is registred
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::tty.register (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B tty.unregister 
Called when a tty device is being unregistered
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::tty.unregister (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B tty.poll 
Called when a tty device is being polled
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::tty.poll (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B tty.receive 
called when a tty receives a message
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::tty.receive (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B tty.write 
write to the tty line
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::tty.write (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B tty.read 
called when a tty line will be read
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::tty.read (3stap)
 for details.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR
.IR \%probe::tty.open (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::tty.release (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::tty.resize (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::tty.ioctl (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::tty.init (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::tty.register (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::tty.unregister (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::tty.poll (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::tty.receive (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::tty.write (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::tty.read (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%stap (1),
.IR \%stapprobes (3stap)
