.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH TAPSET::NFS 3stap "March 2016" "SystemTap Tapset Reference"
.SH NAME
tapset::nfs \- systemtap nfs tapset
 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.TP
.P
.TP
.B nfs.fop.llseek 
NFS client llseek operation
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::nfs.fop.llseek (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B nfs.fop.read 
NFS client read operation
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::nfs.fop.read (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B nfs.fop.write 
NFS client write operation
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::nfs.fop.write (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B nfs.fop.aio_read 
NFS client aio_read file operation
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::nfs.fop.aio_read (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B nfs.fop.read_iter 
NFS client read_iter file operation
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::nfs.fop.read_iter (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B nfs.fop.aio_write 
NFS client aio_write file operation
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::nfs.fop.aio_write (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B nfs.fop.write_iter 
NFS client write_iter file operation
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::nfs.fop.write_iter (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B nfs.fop.mmap 
NFS client mmap operation
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::nfs.fop.mmap (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B nfs.fop.open 
NFS client file open operation
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::nfs.fop.open (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B nfs.fop.flush 
NFS client flush file operation
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::nfs.fop.flush (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B nfs.fop.release 
NFS client release page operation
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::nfs.fop.release (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B nfs.fop.fsync 
NFS client fsync operation
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::nfs.fop.fsync (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B nfs.fop.lock 
NFS client file lock operation
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::nfs.fop.lock (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B nfs.fop.sendfile 
NFS client send file operation
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::nfs.fop.sendfile (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B nfs.fop.check_flags 
NFS client checking flag operation
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::nfs.fop.check_flags (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B nfs.aop.readpage 
NFS client synchronously reading a page
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::nfs.aop.readpage (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B nfs.aop.readpages 
NFS client reading multiple pages
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::nfs.aop.readpages (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B nfs.aop.set_page_dirty 
NFS client marking page as dirty
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::nfs.aop.set_page_dirty (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B nfs.aop.writepage 
NFS client writing a mapped page to the NFS server
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::nfs.aop.writepage (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B nfs.aop.writepages 
NFS client writing several dirty pages to the NFS server
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::nfs.aop.writepages (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B nfs.aop.write_begin 
NFS client begin to write data
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::nfs.aop.write_begin (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B nfs.aop.write_end 
NFS client complete writing data
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::nfs.aop.write_end (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B nfs.aop.release_page 
NFS client releasing page
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::nfs.aop.release_page (3stap)
 for details.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR
.IR \%probe::nfs.fop.llseek (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::nfs.fop.read (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::nfs.fop.write (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::nfs.fop.aio_read (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::nfs.fop.read_iter (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::nfs.fop.aio_write (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::nfs.fop.write_iter (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::nfs.fop.mmap (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::nfs.fop.open (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::nfs.fop.flush (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::nfs.fop.release (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::nfs.fop.fsync (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::nfs.fop.lock (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::nfs.fop.sendfile (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::nfs.fop.check_flags (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::nfs.aop.readpage (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::nfs.aop.readpages (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::nfs.aop.set_page_dirty (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::nfs.aop.writepage (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::nfs.aop.writepages (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::nfs.aop.write_begin (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::nfs.aop.write_end (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::nfs.aop.release_page (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%stap (1),
.IR \%stapprobes (3stap)
