.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH TAPSET::JSON 3stap "March 2016" "SystemTap Tapset Reference"
.SH NAME
tapset::json \- systemtap json tapset
 
.SH DESCRIPTION

 The JSON tapset provides probes, functions, and macros to generate
 a JSON metadata and data file. The JSON metadata file is located in
 /proc/systemtap/MODULE/metadata.json. The JSON data file is located
 in /proc/systemtap/MODULE/data.json. The JSON data file is updated
 with current data every time the file is read.

.TP
.P
.TP
.B json_set_prefix 
Set the metric prefix.
.IP
See 
.IR function::json_set_prefix (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B json_add_numeric_metric 
Add a numeric metric
.IP
See 
.IR function::json_add_numeric_metric (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B json_add_string_metric 
Add a string metric
.IP
See 
.IR function::json_add_string_metric (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B json_add_array 
Add an array
.IP
See 
.IR function::json_add_array (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B json_add_array_numeric_metric 
Add a numeric metric to an array
.IP
See 
.IR function::json_add_array_numeric_metric (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B json_add_array_string_metric 
Add a string metric to an array
.IP
See 
.IR function::json_add_array_string_metric (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B json_data 
Fires whenever JSON data is wanted by a reader.
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::json_data (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B @json_output_data_start 
Start the json output.
.IP
 See 
.IR macro::json_output_data_start (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B @json_output_string_value 
Output a string value.
.IP
 See 
.IR macro::json_output_string_value (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B @json_output_numeric_value 
Output a numeric value.
.IP
 See 
.IR macro::json_output_numeric_value (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B @json_output_array_string_value 
Output a string value for metric in an array.
.IP
 See 
.IR macro::json_output_array_string_value (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B @json_output_array_numeric_value 
Output a numeric value for metric in an array.
.IP
 See 
.IR macro::json_output_array_numeric_value (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B @json_output_data_end 
End the json output.
.IP
 See 
.IR macro::json_output_data_end (3stap)
 for details.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR
.IR \%function::json_set_prefix (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%function::json_add_numeric_metric (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%function::json_add_string_metric (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%function::json_add_array (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%function::json_add_array_numeric_metric (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%function::json_add_array_string_metric (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::json_data (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%macro::json_output_data_start (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%macro::json_output_string_value (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%macro::json_output_numeric_value (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%macro::json_output_array_string_value (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%macro::json_output_array_numeric_value (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%macro::json_output_data_end (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%stap (1),
.IR \%stapprobes (3stap)
