.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH TAPSET::SOCKET 3stap "March 2016" "SystemTap Tapset Reference"
.SH NAME
tapset::socket \- systemtap socket tapset
 
.SH DESCRIPTION

 This family of probe points is used to probe socket activities.

.TP
.P
.TP
.B socket.send 
Message sent on a socket.
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::socket.send (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B socket.receive 
Message received on a socket.
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::socket.receive (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B socket.sendmsg 
Message is currently being sent on a socket.
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::socket.sendmsg (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B socket.sendmsg.return 
Return from socket.sendmsg.
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::socket.sendmsg.return (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B socket.recvmsg 
Message being received on socket
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::socket.recvmsg (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B socket.recvmsg.return 
Return from Message being received on socket
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::socket.recvmsg.return (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B socket.aio_write 
Message send via sock_aio_write()
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::socket.aio_write (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B socket.aio_write.return 
Conclusion of message send via sock_aio_write()
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::socket.aio_write.return (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B socket.aio_read 
Receiving message via sock_aio_read()
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::socket.aio_read (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B socket.aio_read.return 
Conclusion of message received via sock_aio_read()
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::socket.aio_read.return (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B socket.write_iter 
Message send via sock_write_iter()
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::socket.write_iter (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B socket.write_iter.return 
Conclusion of message send via sock_write_iter()
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::socket.write_iter.return (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B socket.read_iter 
Receiving message via sock_read_iter()
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::socket.read_iter (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B socket.read_iter.return 
Conclusion of message received via sock_read_iter()
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::socket.read_iter.return (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B socket.writev 
Message sent via socket_writev()
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::socket.writev (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B socket.writev.return 
Conclusion of message sent via socket_writev()
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::socket.writev.return (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B socket.readv 
Receiving a message via sock_readv()
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::socket.readv (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B socket.readv.return 
Conclusion of receiving a message via sock_readv()
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::socket.readv.return (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B socket.create 
Creation of a socket
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::socket.create (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B socket.create.return 
Return from Creation of a socket
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::socket.create.return (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B socket.close 
Close a socket
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::socket.close (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B socket.close.return 
Return from closing a socket
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::socket.close.return (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B sock_prot_num2str 
Given a protocol number, return a string representation
.IP
See 
.IR function::sock_prot_num2str (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B sock_prot_str2num 
Given a protocol name (string), return the corresponding protocol number
.IP
See 
.IR function::sock_prot_str2num (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B sock_fam_num2str 
Given a protocol family number, return a string representation
.IP
See 
.IR function::sock_fam_num2str (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B sock_fam_str2num 
Given a protocol family name (string), return the corresponding protocol family number
.IP
See 
.IR function::sock_fam_str2num (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B sock_state_num2str 
Given a socket state number, return a string representation
.IP
See 
.IR function::sock_state_num2str (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B sock_state_str2num 
Given a socket state string, return the corresponding state number
.IP
See 
.IR function::sock_state_str2num (3stap)
 for details.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR
.IR \%function::sock_prot_num2str (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%function::sock_prot_str2num (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%function::sock_fam_num2str (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%function::sock_fam_str2num (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%function::sock_state_num2str (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%function::sock_state_str2num (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::socket.send (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::socket.receive (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::socket.sendmsg (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::socket.sendmsg.return (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::socket.recvmsg (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::socket.recvmsg.return (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::socket.aio_write (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::socket.aio_write.return (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::socket.aio_read (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::socket.aio_read.return (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::socket.write_iter (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::socket.write_iter.return (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::socket.read_iter (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::socket.read_iter.return (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::socket.writev (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::socket.writev.return (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::socket.readv (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::socket.readv.return (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::socket.create (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::socket.create.return (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::socket.close (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::socket.close.return (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%stap (1),
.IR \%stapprobes (3stap)
