.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH TAPSET::NFSD 3stap "March 2016" "SystemTap Tapset Reference"
.SH NAME
tapset::nfsd \- systemtap nfsd tapset
 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.TP
.P
.TP
.B nfsd.dispatch 
NFS server receives an operation from client 
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::nfsd.dispatch (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B nfsd.proc.lookup 
NFS server opening or searching for a file for client
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::nfsd.proc.lookup (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B nfsd.proc.read 
NFS server reading file for client
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::nfsd.proc.read (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B nfsd.proc.write 
NFS server writing data to file for client
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::nfsd.proc.write (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B nfsd.proc.commit 
NFS server performing a commit operation for client
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::nfsd.proc.commit (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B nfsd.proc.create 
NFS server creating a file for client
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::nfsd.proc.create (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B nfsd.proc.remove 
NFS server removing a file for client
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::nfsd.proc.remove (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B nfsd.proc.rename 
NFS Server renaming a file for client
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::nfsd.proc.rename (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B nfsd.open 
NFS server opening a file for client
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::nfsd.open (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B nfsd.close 
NFS server closing a file for client
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::nfsd.close (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B nfsd.read 
NFS server reading data from a file for client
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::nfsd.read (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B nfsd.write 
NFS server writing data to a file for client
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::nfsd.write (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B nfsd.commit 
NFS server committing all pending writes to stable storage
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::nfsd.commit (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B nfsd.lookup 
NFS server opening or searching file for a file for client
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::nfsd.lookup (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B nfsd.create 
NFS server creating a file(regular,dir,device,fifo) for client
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::nfsd.create (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B nfsd.createv3 
NFS server creating a regular file or set file attributes for client
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::nfsd.createv3 (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B nfsd.unlink 
NFS server removing a file or a directory for client
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::nfsd.unlink (3stap)
 for details.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR
.IR \%probe::nfsd.dispatch (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::nfsd.proc.lookup (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::nfsd.proc.read (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::nfsd.proc.write (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::nfsd.proc.commit (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::nfsd.proc.create (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::nfsd.proc.remove (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::nfsd.proc.rename (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::nfsd.open (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::nfsd.close (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::nfsd.read (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::nfsd.write (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::nfsd.commit (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::nfsd.lookup (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::nfsd.create (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::nfsd.createv3 (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::nfsd.unlink (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::nfsd.rename (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%stap (1),
.IR \%stapprobes (3stap)
