.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH TAPSET::IOSCHEDULER 3stap "March 2016" "SystemTap Tapset Reference"
.SH NAME
tapset::ioscheduler \- systemtap ioscheduler tapset
 
.SH DESCRIPTION

 This family of probe points is used to probe IO scheduler activities. 

.TP
.P
.TP
.B ioscheduler.elv_next_request 
Fires when a request is retrieved from the request queue
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::ioscheduler.elv_next_request (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B ioscheduler.elv_next_request.return 
Fires when a request retrieval issues a return signal
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::ioscheduler.elv_next_request.return (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B ioscheduler.elv_completed_request 
Fires when a request is completed
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::ioscheduler.elv_completed_request (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B ioscheduler.elv_add_request.kp 
kprobe based probe to indicate that a request was added to the request queue
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::ioscheduler.elv_add_request.kp (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B ioscheduler.elv_add_request.tp 
tracepoint based probe to indicate a request is added to the request queue.
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::ioscheduler.elv_add_request.tp (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B ioscheduler.elv_add_request 
probe to indicate request is added to the request queue.
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::ioscheduler.elv_add_request (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B ioscheduler_trace.elv_completed_request 
Fires when a request is
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::ioscheduler_trace.elv_completed_request (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B ioscheduler_trace.elv_issue_request 
Fires when a request is
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::ioscheduler_trace.elv_issue_request (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B ioscheduler_trace.elv_requeue_request 
Fires when a request is
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::ioscheduler_trace.elv_requeue_request (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B ioscheduler_trace.elv_abort_request 
Fires when a request is aborted.
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::ioscheduler_trace.elv_abort_request (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B ioscheduler_trace.plug 
Fires when a request queue is plugged;
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::ioscheduler_trace.plug (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B ioscheduler_trace.unplug_io 
Fires when a request queue is unplugged;
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::ioscheduler_trace.unplug_io (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B ioscheduler_trace.unplug_timer 
Fires when unplug timer associated
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::ioscheduler_trace.unplug_timer (3stap)
 for details.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR
.IR \%probe::ioscheduler.elv_next_request (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::ioscheduler.elv_next_request.return (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::ioscheduler.elv_completed_request (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::ioscheduler.elv_add_request.kp (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::ioscheduler.elv_add_request.tp (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::ioscheduler.elv_add_request (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::ioscheduler_trace.elv_completed_request (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::ioscheduler_trace.elv_issue_request (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::ioscheduler_trace.elv_requeue_request (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::ioscheduler_trace.elv_abort_request (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::ioscheduler_trace.plug (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::ioscheduler_trace.unplug_io (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::ioscheduler_trace.unplug_timer (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%stap (1),
.IR \%stapprobes (3stap)
