.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH TAPSET::RPC 3stap "March 2016" "SystemTap Tapset Reference"
.SH NAME
tapset::rpc \- systemtap rpc tapset
 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.TP
.P
.TP
.B sunrpc.clnt.create_client 
Create an RPC client
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::sunrpc.clnt.create_client (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B sunrpc.clnt.clone_client 
Clone an RPC client structure
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::sunrpc.clnt.clone_client (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B sunrpc.clnt.shutdown_client 
Shutdown an RPC client
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::sunrpc.clnt.shutdown_client (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B sunrpc.clnt.bind_new_program 
Bind a new RPC program to an existing client
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::sunrpc.clnt.bind_new_program (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B sunrpc.clnt.call_sync 
Make a synchronous RPC call
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::sunrpc.clnt.call_sync (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B sunrpc.clnt.call_async 
Make an asynchronous RPC call
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::sunrpc.clnt.call_async (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B sunrpc.clnt.restart_call 
Restart an asynchronous RPC call
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::sunrpc.clnt.restart_call (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B sunrpc.svc.register 
Register an RPC service with the local portmapper
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::sunrpc.svc.register (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B sunrpc.svc.create 
Create an RPC service
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::sunrpc.svc.create (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B sunrpc.svc.destroy 
Destroy an RPC service
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::sunrpc.svc.destroy (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B sunrpc.svc.process 
Process an RPC request
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::sunrpc.svc.process (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B sunrpc.svc.authorise 
An RPC request is to be authorised
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::sunrpc.svc.authorise (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B sunrpc.svc.recv 
Listen for the next RPC request on any socket
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::sunrpc.svc.recv (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B sunrpc.svc.send  
Return reply to RPC client
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::sunrpc.svc.send  (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B sunrpc.svc.drop 
Drop RPC request
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::sunrpc.svc.drop (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B sunrpc.sched.new_task 
Create new task for the specified client
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::sunrpc.sched.new_task (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B sunrpc.sched.release_task 
Release all resources associated with a task
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::sunrpc.sched.release_task (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B sunrpc.sched.execute 
Execute the RPC `scheduler' 
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::sunrpc.sched.execute (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B sunrpc.sched.delay 
Delay an RPC task
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::sunrpc.sched.delay (3stap)
 for details.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR
.IR \%probe::sunrpc.clnt.create_client (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::sunrpc.clnt.clone_client (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::sunrpc.clnt.shutdown_client (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::sunrpc.clnt.bind_new_program (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::sunrpc.clnt.call_sync (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::sunrpc.clnt.call_async (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::sunrpc.clnt.restart_call (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::sunrpc.svc.register (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::sunrpc.svc.create (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::sunrpc.svc.destroy (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::sunrpc.svc.process (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::sunrpc.svc.authorise (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::sunrpc.svc.recv (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::sunrpc.svc.send (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::sunrpc.svc.drop (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::sunrpc.sched.new_task (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::sunrpc.sched.release_task (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::sunrpc.sched.execute (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::sunrpc.sched.delay (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%stap (1),
.IR \%stapprobes (3stap)
