.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH TAPSET::TIMESTAMP_MONOTONIC 3stap "March 2016" "SystemTap Tapset Reference"
.SH NAME
tapset::timestamp_monotonic \- systemtap timestamp_monotonic tapset
 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.TP
.P
.TP
.B cpu_clock_ns 
Number of nanoseconds on the given cpu's clock
.IP
See 
.IR function::cpu_clock_ns (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B cpu_clock_us 
Number of microseconds on the given cpu's clock
.IP
See 
.IR function::cpu_clock_us (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B cpu_clock_ms 
Number of milliseconds on the given cpu's clock
.IP
See 
.IR function::cpu_clock_ms (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B cpu_clock_s 
Number of seconds on the given cpu's clock
.IP
See 
.IR function::cpu_clock_s (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B local_clock_ns 
Number of nanoseconds on the local cpu's clock
.IP
See 
.IR function::local_clock_ns (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B local_clock_us 
Number of microseconds on the local cpu's clock
.IP
See 
.IR function::local_clock_us (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B local_clock_ms 
Number of milliseconds on the local cpu's clock
.IP
See 
.IR function::local_clock_ms (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B local_clock_s 
Number of seconds on the local cpu's clock
.IP
See 
.IR function::local_clock_s (3stap)
 for details.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR
.IR \%function::cpu_clock_ns (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%function::cpu_clock_us (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%function::cpu_clock_ms (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%function::cpu_clock_s (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%function::local_clock_ns (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%function::local_clock_us (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%function::local_clock_ms (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%function::local_clock_s (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%stap (1),
.IR \%stapprobes (3stap)
