.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH TAPSET::NETFILTER 3stap "March 2016" "SystemTap Tapset Reference"
.SH NAME
tapset::netfilter \- systemtap netfilter tapset
 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.TP
.P
.TP
.B netfilter.ip.pre_routing 
Called before an IP packet is routed
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::netfilter.ip.pre_routing (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B netfilter.ip.local_in 
Called on an incoming IP packet addressed to the local computer
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::netfilter.ip.local_in (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B netfilter.ip.forward 
Called on an incoming IP packet addressed to some other computer
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::netfilter.ip.forward (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B netfilter.ip.local_out 
Called on an outgoing IP packet
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::netfilter.ip.local_out (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B netfilter.ip.post_routing 
Called immediately before an outgoing IP packet leaves the computer
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::netfilter.ip.post_routing (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B netfilter.bridge.local_in 
Called on a bridging packet destined for the local computer
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::netfilter.bridge.local_in (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B netfilter.bridge.forward 
Called on an incoming bridging packet destined for some other computer
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::netfilter.bridge.forward (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B netfilter.bridge.local_out 
Called on a bridging packet coming from a local process
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::netfilter.bridge.local_out (3stap)
 for details.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR
.IR \%probe::netfilter.ip.pre_routing (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::netfilter.ip.local_in (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::netfilter.ip.forward (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::netfilter.ip.local_out (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::netfilter.ip.post_routing (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::netfilter.arp.in (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::netfilter.arp.out (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::netfilter.arp.forward (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::netfilter.bridge.pre_routing (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::netfilter.bridge.local_in (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::netfilter.bridge.forward (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::netfilter.bridge.local_out (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::netfilter.bridge.post_routing (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%stap (1),
.IR \%stapprobes (3stap)
