.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH TAPSET::TCPMIB 3stap "March 2016" "SystemTap Tapset Reference"
.SH NAME
tapset::tcpmib \- systemtap tcpmib tapset
 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.TP
.P
.TP
.B tcpmib_get_state 
Get a socket's state
.IP
See 
.IR function::tcpmib_get_state (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B tcpmib_local_addr 
Get the source address
.IP
See 
.IR function::tcpmib_local_addr (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B tcpmib_remote_addr 
Get the remote address
.IP
See 
.IR function::tcpmib_remote_addr (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B tcpmib_local_port 
Get the local port
.IP
See 
.IR function::tcpmib_local_port (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B tcpmib_remote_port 
Get the remote port
.IP
See 
.IR function::tcpmib_remote_port (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B tcpmib.ActiveOpens 
Count an active opening of a socket
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::tcpmib.ActiveOpens (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B tcpmib.AttemptFails 
Count a failed attempt to open a socket
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::tcpmib.AttemptFails (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B tcpmib.CurrEstab 
Update the count of open sockets
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::tcpmib.CurrEstab (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B tcpmib.EstabResets 
Count the reset of a socket
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::tcpmib.EstabResets (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B tcpmib.InSegs 
Count an incoming tcp segment
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::tcpmib.InSegs (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B tcpmib.OutRsts 
Count the sending of a reset packet
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::tcpmib.OutRsts (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B tcpmib.OutSegs 
Count the sending of a TCP segment
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::tcpmib.OutSegs (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B tcpmib.PassiveOpens 
Count the passive creation of a socket
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::tcpmib.PassiveOpens (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B tcpmib.RetransSegs 
Count the retransmission of a TCP segment
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::tcpmib.RetransSegs (3stap)
 for details.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR
.IR \%function::tcpmib_get_state (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%function::tcpmib_local_addr (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%function::tcpmib_remote_addr (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%function::tcpmib_local_port (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%function::tcpmib_remote_port (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::tcpmib.ActiveOpens (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::tcpmib.AttemptFails (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::tcpmib.CurrEstab (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::tcpmib.EstabResets (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::tcpmib.InSegs (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::tcpmib.OutRsts (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::tcpmib.OutSegs (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::tcpmib.PassiveOpens (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::tcpmib.RetransSegs (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%stap (1),
.IR \%stapprobes (3stap)
