.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH TAPSET::NFS_PROC 3stap "March 2016" "SystemTap Tapset Reference"
.SH NAME
tapset::nfs_proc \- systemtap nfs_proc tapset
 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.TP
.P
.TP
.B nfs.proc.lookup 
NFS client opens/searches a file on server
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::nfs.proc.lookup (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B nfs.proc.read 
NFS client synchronously reads file from server
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::nfs.proc.read (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B nfs.proc.write 
NFS client synchronously writes file to server
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::nfs.proc.write (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B nfs.proc.commit 
NFS client committing data on server
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::nfs.proc.commit (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B nfs.proc.read_setup 
NFS client setting up a read RPC task
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::nfs.proc.read_setup (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B nfs.proc.read_done 
NFS client response to a read RPC task
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::nfs.proc.read_done (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B nfs.proc.write_setup 
NFS client setting up a write RPC task
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::nfs.proc.write_setup (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B nfs.proc.write_done 
NFS client response to a write RPC task
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::nfs.proc.write_done (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B nfs.proc.commit_setup 
NFS client setting up a commit RPC task
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::nfs.proc.commit_setup (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B nfs.proc.commit_done 
NFS client response to a commit RPC task
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::nfs.proc.commit_done (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B nfs.proc.rename_setup 
NFS client setting up a rename RPC task
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::nfs.proc.rename_setup (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B nfs.proc.rename_done 
NFS client response to a rename RPC task
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::nfs.proc.rename_done (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B nfs.proc.open 
NFS client allocates file read/write context information
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::nfs.proc.open (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B nfs.proc.release 
 NFS client releases file read/write context information
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::nfs.proc.release (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B nfs.proc.handle_exception 
NFS client handling an NFSv4 exception
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::nfs.proc.handle_exception (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B nfs.proc.create 
NFS client creating file on server
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::nfs.proc.create (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B nfs.proc.remove 
NFS client removes a file on server
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::nfs.proc.remove (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B nfs.proc.rename 
NFS client renames a file on server
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::nfs.proc.rename (3stap)
 for details.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR
.IR \%probe::nfs.proc.lookup (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::nfs.proc.read (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::nfs.proc.write (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::nfs.proc.commit (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::nfs.proc.read_setup (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::nfs.proc.read_done (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::nfs.proc.write_setup (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::nfs.proc.write_done (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::nfs.proc.commit_setup (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::nfs.proc.commit_done (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::nfs.proc.rename_setup (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::nfs.proc.rename_done (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::nfs.proc.open (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::nfs.proc.release (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::nfs.proc.handle_exception (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::nfs.proc.create (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::nfs.proc.remove (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::nfs.proc.rename (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%stap (1),
.IR \%stapprobes (3stap)
