.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH TAPSET::IPMIB 3stap "March 2016" "SystemTap Tapset Reference"
.SH NAME
tapset::ipmib \- systemtap ipmib tapset
 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.TP
.P
.TP
.B ipmib_remote_addr 
Get the remote ip address
.IP
See 
.IR function::ipmib_remote_addr (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B ipmib_local_addr 
Get the local ip address
.IP
See 
.IR function::ipmib_local_addr (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B ipmib_tcp_remote_port 
Get the remote tcp port
.IP
See 
.IR function::ipmib_tcp_remote_port (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B ipmib_tcp_local_port 
Get the local tcp port
.IP
See 
.IR function::ipmib_tcp_local_port (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B ipmib_get_proto 
Get the protocol value
.IP
See 
.IR function::ipmib_get_proto (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B ipmib.InReceives 
Count an arriving packet
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::ipmib.InReceives (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B ipmib.InNoRoutes 
Count an arriving packet with no matching socket
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::ipmib.InNoRoutes (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B ipmib.InAddrErrors 
Count arriving packets with an incorrect address
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::ipmib.InAddrErrors (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B ipmib.InUnknownProtos 
Count arriving packets with an unbound proto
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::ipmib.InUnknownProtos (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B ipmib.InDiscards 
Count discarded inbound packets
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::ipmib.InDiscards (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B ipmib.ForwDatagrams 
Count forwarded packet
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::ipmib.ForwDatagrams (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B ipmib.OutRequests 
Count a request to send a packet
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::ipmib.OutRequests (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B ipmib.ReasmTimeout 
Count Reassembly Timeouts
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::ipmib.ReasmTimeout (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B ipmib.ReasmReqds 
Count number of packet fragments reassembly requests
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::ipmib.ReasmReqds (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B ipmib.FragOKs 
Count datagram fragmented successfully
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::ipmib.FragOKs (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B ipmib.FragFails 
Count datagram fragmented unsuccessfully
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::ipmib.FragFails (3stap)
 for details.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR
.IR \%function::ipmib_remote_addr (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%function::ipmib_local_addr (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%function::ipmib_tcp_remote_port (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%function::ipmib_tcp_local_port (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%function::ipmib_get_proto (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::ipmib.InReceives (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::ipmib.InNoRoutes (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::ipmib.InAddrErrors (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::ipmib.InUnknownProtos (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::ipmib.InDiscards (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::ipmib.ForwDatagrams (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::ipmib.OutRequests (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::ipmib.ReasmTimeout (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::ipmib.ReasmReqds (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::ipmib.FragOKs (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::ipmib.FragFails (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%stap (1),
.IR \%stapprobes (3stap)
