.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH TAPSET::TCP 3stap "March 2016" "SystemTap Tapset Reference"
.SH NAME
tapset::tcp \- systemtap tcp tapset
 
.SH DESCRIPTION

 This family of probe points is used to probe events that occur in the TCP layer, 

.TP
.P
.TP
.B tcp.sendmsg 
Sending a tcp message
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::tcp.sendmsg (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B tcp.sendmsg.return 
 Sending TCP message is done
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::tcp.sendmsg.return (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B tcp.recvmsg 
Receiving TCP message
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::tcp.recvmsg (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B tcp.recvmsg.return 
Receiving TCP message complete
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::tcp.recvmsg.return (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B tcp.disconnect 
TCP socket disconnection
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::tcp.disconnect (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B tcp.disconnect.return 
TCP socket disconnection complete
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::tcp.disconnect.return (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B tcp.setsockopt 
Call to setsockopt()
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::tcp.setsockopt (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B tcp.setsockopt.return 
 Return from setsockopt()
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::tcp.setsockopt.return (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B tcp.receive 
Called when a TCP packet is received
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::tcp.receive (3stap)
 for details.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR
.IR \%probe::tcp.sendmsg (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::tcp.sendmsg.return (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::tcp.recvmsg (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::tcp.recvmsg.return (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::tcp.disconnect (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::tcp.disconnect.return (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::tcp.setsockopt (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::tcp.setsockopt.return (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::tcp.receive (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%stap (1),
.IR \%stapprobes (3stap)
