.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH TAPSET::NETWORKING 3stap "March 2016" "SystemTap Tapset Reference"
.SH NAME
tapset::networking \- systemtap networking tapset
 
.SH DESCRIPTION

 This family of probe points is used to probe the activities of the network device. 

.TP
.P
.TP
.B netdev.receive 
Data received from network device.
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::netdev.receive (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B netdev.transmit 
Network device transmitting buffer
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::netdev.transmit (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B netdev.change_mtu 
Called when the netdev MTU is changed
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::netdev.change_mtu (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B netdev.open 
Called when the device is opened
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::netdev.open (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B netdev.close 
Called when the device is closed
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::netdev.close (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B netdev.hard_transmit 
Called when the devices is going to TX (hard)
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::netdev.hard_transmit (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B netdev.rx 
Called when the device is going to receive a packet
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::netdev.rx (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B netdev.change_rx_flag 
Called when the device RX flag will be changed
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::netdev.change_rx_flag (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B netdev.set_promiscuity 
Called when the device enters/leaves promiscuity
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::netdev.set_promiscuity (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B netdev.ioctl 
Called when the device suffers an IOCTL
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::netdev.ioctl (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B netdev.register 
Called when the device is registered
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::netdev.register (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B netdev.unregister 
Called when the device is being unregistered
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::netdev.unregister (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B netdev.get_stats 
Called when someone asks the device statistics
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::netdev.get_stats (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B netdev.change_mac 
Called when the netdev_name has the MAC changed
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::netdev.change_mac (3stap)
 for details.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR
.IR \%probe::netdev.receive (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::netdev.transmit (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::netdev.change_mtu (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::netdev.open (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::netdev.close (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::netdev.hard_transmit (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::netdev.rx (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::netdev.change_rx_flag (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::netdev.set_promiscuity (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::netdev.ioctl (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::netdev.register (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::netdev.unregister (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::netdev.get_stats (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::netdev.change_mac (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%stap (1),
.IR \%stapprobes (3stap)
