.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH TAPSET::STAP_STATICMARKERS 3stap "March 2016" "SystemTap Tapset Reference"
.SH NAME
tapset::stap_staticmarkers \- systemtap stap_staticmarkers tapset
 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.TP
.P
.TP
.B stap.pass0 
Starting stap pass0 (parsing command line arguments)
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::stap.pass0 (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B stap.pass0.end 
Finished stap pass0 (parsing command line arguments)
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::stap.pass0.end (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B stap.pass1a 
Starting stap pass1 (parsing user script)
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::stap.pass1a (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B stap.pass1b 
Starting stap pass1 (parsing library scripts)
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::stap.pass1b (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B stap.pass1.end 
Finished stap pass1 (parsing scripts)
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::stap.pass1.end (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B stap.pass2 
Starting stap pass2 (elaboration)
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::stap.pass2 (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B stap.pass2.end 
Finished stap pass2 (elaboration)
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::stap.pass2.end (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B stap.pass3 
Starting stap pass3 (translation to C)
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::stap.pass3 (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B stap.pass3.end 
Finished stap pass3 (translation to C)
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::stap.pass3.end (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B stap.pass4 
Starting stap pass4 (compile C code into kernel module)
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::stap.pass4 (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B stap.pass4.end 
Finished stap pass4 (compile C code into kernel module)
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::stap.pass4.end (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B stap.pass5 
Starting stap pass5 (running the instrumentation)
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::stap.pass5 (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B stap.pass5.end 
Finished stap pass5 (running the instrumentation)
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::stap.pass5.end (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B stap.pass6 
Starting stap pass6 (cleanup)
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::stap.pass6 (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B stap.pass6.end 
Finished stap pass6 (cleanup)
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::stap.pass6.end (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B stap.cache_clean 
Removing file from stap cache
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::stap.cache_clean (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B stap.cache_add_mod 
Adding kernel instrumentation module to cache
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::stap.cache_add_mod (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B stap.cache_add_src 
Adding C code translation to cache
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::stap.cache_add_src (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B stap.cache_add_nss 
Add NSS (Network Security Services) information to cache
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::stap.cache_add_nss (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B stap.cache_get 
Found item in stap cache
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::stap.cache_get (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B stap.system 
Starting a command from stap
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::stap.system (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B stap.system.spawn 
stap spawned new process
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::stap.system.spawn (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B stap.system.return 
Finished a command from stap
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::stap.system.return (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B staprun.insert_module 
Inserting SystemTap instrumentation module
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::staprun.insert_module (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B staprun.remove_module 
Removing SystemTap instrumentation module
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::staprun.remove_module (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B staprun.send_control_message 
Sending a control message
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::staprun.send_control_message (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B stapio.receive_control_message 
Received a control message
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::stapio.receive_control_message (3stap)
 for details.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR
.IR \%probe::stap.pass0 (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::stap.pass0.end (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::stap.pass1a (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::stap.pass1b (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::stap.pass1.end (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::stap.pass2 (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::stap.pass2.end (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::stap.pass3 (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::stap.pass3.end (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::stap.pass4 (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::stap.pass4.end (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::stap.pass5 (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::stap.pass5.end (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::stap.pass6 (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::stap.pass6.end (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::stap.cache_clean (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::stap.cache_add_mod (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::stap.cache_add_src (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::stap.cache_add_nss (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::stap.cache_get (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::stap.system (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::stap.system.spawn (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::stap.system.return (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::staprun.insert_module (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::staprun.remove_module (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::staprun.send_control_message (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::stapio.receive_control_message (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%stap (1),
.IR \%stapprobes (3stap)
