.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH TAPSET::QUEUE_STATS 3stap "March 2016" "SystemTap Tapset Reference"
.SH NAME
tapset::queue_stats \- systemtap queue_stats tapset
 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.TP
.P
.TP
.B qs_wait 
Function to record enqueue requests
.IP
See 
.IR function::qs_wait (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B qs_run 
Function to record being moved from wait queue to being serviced 
.IP
See 
.IR function::qs_run (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B qs_done 
Function to record finishing request 
.IP
See 
.IR function::qs_done (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B qsq_start 
Function to reset the stats for a queue
.IP
See 
.IR function::qsq_start (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B qsq_utilization 
Fraction of time that any request was being serviced 
.IP
See 
.IR function::qsq_utilization (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B qsq_blocked 
Returns the time reqest was on the wait queue 
.IP
See 
.IR function::qsq_blocked (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B qsq_wait_queue_length 
length of wait queue 
.IP
See 
.IR function::qsq_wait_queue_length (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B qsq_service_time 
Amount of time per request service 
.IP
See 
.IR function::qsq_service_time (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B qsq_wait_time 
Amount of time in queue + service per request
.IP
See 
.IR function::qsq_wait_time (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B qsq_throughput 
Number of requests served per unit time 
.IP
See 
.IR function::qsq_throughput (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B qsq_print 
Prints a line of statistics for the given queue
.IP
See 
.IR function::qsq_print (3stap)
 for details.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR
.IR \%function::qs_wait (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%function::qs_run (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%function::qs_done (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%function::qsq_start (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%function::qsq_utilization (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%function::qsq_blocked (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%function::qsq_wait_queue_length (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%function::qsq_service_time (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%function::qsq_wait_time (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%function::qsq_throughput (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%function::qsq_print (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%stap (1),
.IR \%stapprobes (3stap)
