.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH TAPSET::MEMORY 3stap "March 2016" "SystemTap Tapset Reference"
.SH NAME
tapset::memory \- systemtap memory tapset
 
.SH DESCRIPTION

 This family of probe points is used to probe memory-related events. 

.TP
.P
.TP
.B vm_fault_contains 
Test return value for page fault reason
.IP
See 
.IR function::vm_fault_contains (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B vm.pagefault 
Records that a page fault occurred
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::vm.pagefault (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B vm.pagefault.return 
Indicates what type of fault occurred
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::vm.pagefault.return (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B addr_to_node 
Returns which node a given address belongs to within a NUMA system
.IP
See 
.IR function::addr_to_node (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B vm.write_shared 
Attempts at writing to a shared page
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::vm.write_shared (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B vm.write_shared_copy 
Page copy for shared page write
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::vm.write_shared_copy (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B vm.mmap 
Fires when an mmap is requested
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::vm.mmap (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B vm.munmap 
Fires when an munmap is requested
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::vm.munmap (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B vm.brk 
Fires when a brk is requested (i.e. the heap will be resized)
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::vm.brk (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B vm.oom_kill 
Fires when a thread is selected for termination by the OOM killer
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::vm.oom_kill (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B vm.kmalloc 
Fires when kmalloc is requested
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::vm.kmalloc (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B vm.kmem_cache_alloc 
Fires when kmem_cache_alloc is requested
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::vm.kmem_cache_alloc (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B vm.kmalloc_node 
Fires when kmalloc_node is requested
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::vm.kmalloc_node (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B vm.kmem_cache_alloc_node 
Fires when kmem_cache_alloc_node is requested
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::vm.kmem_cache_alloc_node (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B vm.kfree 
Fires when kfree is requested
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::vm.kfree (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B vm.kmem_cache_free 
Fires when kmem_cache_free is requested
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::vm.kmem_cache_free (3stap)
 for details.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR
.IR \%function::vm_fault_contains (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%function::addr_to_node (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::vm.pagefault (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::vm.pagefault.return (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::vm.write_shared (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::vm.write_shared_copy (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::vm.mmap (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::vm.munmap (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::vm.brk (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::vm.oom_kill (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::vm.kmalloc (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::vm.kmem_cache_alloc (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::vm.kmalloc_node (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::vm.kmem_cache_alloc_node (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::vm.kfree (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::vm.kmem_cache_free (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%stap (1),
.IR \%stapprobes (3stap)
