.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH TAPSET::IRQ 3stap "March 2016" "SystemTap Tapset Reference"
.SH NAME
tapset::irq \- systemtap irq tapset
 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.TP
.P
.TP
.B workqueue.create 
Creating a new workqueue
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::workqueue.create (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B workqueue.insert 
Queuing work on a workqueue
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::workqueue.insert (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B workqueue.execute 
Executing deferred work
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::workqueue.execute (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B workqueue.destroy 
Destroying workqueue
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::workqueue.destroy (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B irq_handler.entry 
Execution of interrupt handler starting
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::irq_handler.entry (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B irq_handler.exit 
Execution of interrupt handler completed
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::irq_handler.exit (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B softirq.entry 
Execution of handler for a pending softirq starting
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::softirq.entry (3stap)
 for details.
.P
.TP
.B softirq.exit 
Execution of handler for a pending softirq completed
.IP
 See 
.IR probe::softirq.exit (3stap)
 for details.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR
.IR \%probe::workqueue.create (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::workqueue.insert (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::workqueue.execute (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::workqueue.destroy (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::irq_handler.entry (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::irq_handler.exit (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::softirq.entry (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%probe::softirq.exit (3stap),
.BR
.IR \%stap (1),
.IR \%stapprobes (3stap)
