.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH STAP 7  "Systemtap Team"
.SH NAME

stappaths \- systemtap configurable file paths


.\" macros
.de SAMPLE
.br
.RS
.nf
..
.de ESAMPLE
.hy
.fi
.RE
..

.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page was generated on 2016-11-27 for systemtap 3.0.
The following section will list the main paths in systemtap that are 
important to know and may be required to reference.
.TP
/home/figo/systemtap_host/share/systemtap/tapset/
The directory for the standard probe-alias / function tapset library,
unless overridden by the
.I SYSTEMTAP_TAPSET
environment variable or the
.I XDG_DATA_DIRS
environment variable.
These are described in the
.IR stapprobes (3stap),
.IR probe::* (3stap),
and
.IR function::* (3stap)
manual pages.
.TP
/home/figo/systemtap_host/share/systemtap/runtime/
The runtime sources, unless overridden by the
.I SYSTEMTAP_RUNTIME
environment variable.
.TP
/home/figo/systemtap_host/bin/staprun
The auxiliary program supervising module loading, interaction, and
unloading.
.TP
${exec_prefix}/libexec/systemtap/stapio
The auxiliary program for module input and output handling.
.TP
/usr/include/sys/sdt.h
Location of the <sys/sdt.h> headers.
.TP
Kernel debuginfo Path: /usr/lib/debug/lib/modules/$(uname \-r)/
The location of kernel debugging information when packaged into the
.IR kernel\-debuginfo
RPM, unless overridden by the
.I SYSTEMTAP_DEBUGINFO_PATH
environment variable.  The default value for this variable is
.IR \+:.debug:/usr/lib/debug:build .
elfutils searches vmlinux in this path and it interprets the path as a base
directory of which various subdirectories will be searched for finding debuginfo
for the kernel, kernel modules, and user-space binaries.
By default, systemtap will also look for vmlinux in these locations:

.SAMPLE
/boot/vmlinux\-`uname \-r` 
/lib/modules/`uname \-r`/vmlinux
/lib/modules/`uname \-r`/vmlinux.debug
/lib/modules/`uname \-r`/build/vmlinux
/lib/modules/`uname \-r`/.debug/vmlinux.debug
/usr/lib/debug/lib/modules/`uname \-r`/vmlinux.debug
/var/cache/abrt\-di/usr/debug/lib/modules/`uname \-r`/
/var/cache/abrt\-di/usr/lib/debug/lib/modules/`uname \-r`/vmlinux.debug
.PP
.ESAMPLE
.IP
      
Corresponding source files are usually located under /usr/src/debug/.
Further file information on user-space applications can be determined per-basis using
rpm \-ql <package>\-debuginfo. For supported user-space applications information please 
visit the systemtap wiki. 
.TP
$HOME/.systemtap
Systemtap data directory for cached systemtap files, unless overridden
by the
.I SYSTEMTAP_DIR
environment variable.
.TP
/tmp/stapXXXXXX
Temporary directory for systemtap files, including translated C code
and kernel object.
.TP
/lib/modules/VERSION/build
The location of kernel module building infrastructure.
.TP
/home/figo/systemtap_host/share/doc/systemtap*/examples
Examples with greater detail can be found here. Each example comes with a .txt
or .meta file explaining what the example, sample or demo does and how it is
ordinarily run.  See also
.nh
.IR http://sourceware.org/systemtap/examples/
.hy
.TP
$SYSTEMTAP_DIR/ssl/server
User's server\-side SSL certificate database. If SYSTEMTAP_DIR is not
set, the default is $HOME/.systemtap.
.TP
$SYSTEMTAP_DIR/ssl/client
User's private client\-side SSL certificate database. If SYSTEMTAP_DIR is not
set, the default is $HOME/.systemtap.
.TP
${prefix}/etc/systemtap/ssl/client
Global client\-side SSL certificate database.
.TP
${prefix}/etc/systemtap/staprun/
\fIstaprun\fR\[aq]s trusted signer certificate database.
.TP
${prefix}/etc/sysconfig/stap\-server/
stap\-server service global configuration file.
.TP
${prefix}/etc/stap\-server/conf.d/*.conf
stap\-server service configuration files for default servers.
.TP
/var/run/stap\-server/
stap\-server service default location of status files for running servers.
.TP
/var/log/stap\-server/log
stap\-server service default log file.


.PP
.SH FILES
.nh
.IR /home/figo/systemtap_host/share/systemtap/tapset
.hy

.SH SEE ALSO
.nh
.nf
.IR stapprobes (3stap),
.IR staprun (8),
.IR stapvars (3stap),
.IR stapex (3stap),
.IR stap\-server (8),
.IR awk (1),
.IR gdb (1)


.SH BUGS
Use the Bugzilla link of the project web page or our mailing list.
.nh
.BR http://sourceware.org/systemtap/  ,  <systemtap@sourceware.org> .
.hy
